Angular Intro
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

    is a typescript framework used to develop Single Page Applications.

    Dynamic Web App

        Server                                                      Client (Browser)
                                        <-------------------------REQ--
            server side
            executing programs 
            (controllers)
            and view engines
                                    html content is generated by
                                    the view engine on the server
                                    ----------generated html (RESP)------->  unload the prev page and load the new one.


    Single Page App

    
        Server                                                      Client (Browser)
                                <----------------------First REQ--
            spa-bundle
            (index.html + JS)
                                ------(spa-bundle) RESP------------->

                                                                    load the index.html and
                                                                    load the JS assosiated with it.

                                                                    from now on we won't contact the server any more.
                                                                    all events, form submitions ..etc
                                                                    are handled on the cleitn machine by the JS.

                                                                   JS will generate html if needed on the client and
                                                                   will replace the old html content of index with the
                                                                   newly generated html content.

                                                                   in case of a data operation like
                                                                   retrival or insertion or updation or deletion
                                                                   of data, the JS on the client
                                                                   will raise a REQ

            web service (rest api) <----------------REQ for data operation--
                                -----------data.xml/data.json (RESP)------->

                                                                    the resultant data is recived by JS on the client
                                                                    and will generated html suitable for that data
                                                                    and will render that html on the index.html

    Pre-Requisites
        html 5
        css 3
        bootstrap 5
        Javascript (ECMAScript 6)
            Javascript standred classes like String,Object,Math,Date ...etc.,
            Javascript Functions Function, Constructor Function, Arrow Function, Call Back ..etc
            Arrays and Array Prototype Functions like map,find,sort,filter,reduce ..etc.,
            Javascript OOPs classes, object, prototypes, constuctors, memeber methods, binding
            Variables scopes var, let , const
            Asynchrnous programming liek setInterval, setTimeout, Promise, async and await
            DOM manipulations
            BOM
            Modules, spreed operator, template literals, rest paramaters, destructured assignment

    typescript ?

        = javascript  + type safety

        employee.ts
        ---------------------------------
        class Employee {
            private empId:number;
            private fullName:string;
            private salary:number;
            private joinDate:Date;

            constructor(){
                this.empId=0;
                this.fullName="";
                this.salary=0;
                this.joinDate=new Date();
            }

            hra(percent:number) : number {
                return this.salary*percent ;
            }
        }

        employee.js
        ---------------------------------
        class Employee {
            constructor(){
                this.empId=0;
                this.fullName="";
                this.salary=0;
                this.joinDate=new Date();
            }

            hra(percent) {
                return this.salary*percent ;
            }
        }

    Lab Setup

        VS Code             IDE                     latest
        NodeJS              Dev.Platform            14 >                                            node --version
        Angular CLI         Project Tool Facet      13 >    npm install -g @angular/cli@13.3.3      ng version

    What is Node?
        NodeJS is a javascript runtime alternate to a browser.

    Why is NodeJS?

        1. Compose the code                     IDE             VSCode
        2. Compile the code (.ts into .js)      transpeller     babel
        3. build the bundle (dependencies)      build tool      npm
        4. pack the bundle                      packaging tool  webpack
        5. run test cases                       testing lib     jasmine and karma

        all these tools like babel, npm, webpack, jasmine are expected to execute on the developer machine.
        and all of thee tools are javascript based. Hence we need NodeJS on the developer machine to execute these tools.

    Angular CLI

        it is frontier of npm tool adn other build scripts to create and manage the project structure and is used
        to invoke the testing, executing or building of our application.

        ng new proj-name

        cd proj-name

        proj-name \>    ng generate module ModuleName
        proj-name \>    ng generate directive DirectiveName --skip-tests
        proj-name \>    ng generate component ComponentName --skip-tests
        proj-name \>    ng generate pipe PipeName --skip-tests
        proj-name \>    ng generate service ServiceName --skip-tests
        proj-name \>    ng generate class ClassName --skip-tests
        proj-name \>    ng generate interface InterfaceName

        'generate' can be short-cut to 'g'
        'component' can be short-cut to 'c'

        proj-name \>    ng serve --port 8999 -o
        proj-name \>    ng build
        proj-name \>    ng test


Angular Archetecture
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

    an angular project comprises of variaty of resources like :

        Modules
        Directives
        Components
        Pipes
        Services

    each of these resources is a typescript class.
    these class are marked with decorators to specify their role.
    these decorators are also supplied with a json-object called meta-data that
    encapsulates the configuration of each resource.

    Module
            @NgModule({
                declarations:[],
                imports:[],
                exports:[],
                providers:[],
                bootstrap:[]
            })
            class SalesModule {

            }

            An angular module is different from a JS module.
            Each JS file is a is a JS module. 
            Each angular module is a class. The anulgar module are a logical group of single unit of
            load. an Angular module will group components, directives, pipes and services as a unit.
            An angular module can have sub-modules as well.

            Each angular project must be inside a top-level module and is called 'ROOT-MODULE'
            and the sub-module are called 'FEATURE-MODULES'

            declarations    will hold the list of components,directives,pipes that
                            are grouped under the current module

            imports         will hold the list of sub-modules needed in the current module     

            exports         will hold the list of components,directives,pipes that
                            are grouped under the current module and are allowed 
                            to be accessed outside the current module.

                            'exports' is absent for 'ROOT-MODULE'

            providers       will hold the list of servcies of the current module.

            bootstrap       is a meta-data property allowed only for top-level modules,
                            and will have the component that has to be instatiated immediatly 
                            after the module is loaded.
            

    Directive

            Angular allows extandability on html - that one can create our own html elements (tags) and attributes.

            Component Directives / Components

                @Component({
                    selector:'',
                    templateUrl:''
                })
                class ShoppingCartComponent {

                }

                Each component is a html element (tag).

                selector    is the name of the tag

                Component = Component Class + Component Template + Component Style Sheets
                    Component Class holds the state (data) and behaviour (method for event-handling)
                    Component Template provide the html DOM for that compenent.
                    Component Style Sheets provide local styling...

                Data Binding

                    is about accessing the fields and methods of componenet class in
                    the component template.

                    Interpolation
                        is rendering the value of an angular expression into the
                        content of a html element.

                        {{angular-expression}}

                        as and when the fields in the expression have their values changed,
                        the expression is autoamtically re-evaluated and updated on the screen.
                        
                    Two-Way Data Binding
                        is to bind a field with a form-element.

                        'ngModel' is an attribute directive form 'FormsModule'
                        'FormsModule' from '@angular/forms'

                        <input [(ngModel)]="field" />

                    One-Way Data Binding

                        is to bind of fields to the attributes of the elements
                        in the template.

                        attributes      <tag [attribute]="field" ></tag>
                        styles          <tag [style.cssProperty]="field" ></tag>
                        css classes     <tag [class.className]="booleanField" ></tag>
                        events          <tag (eventDirective)="method()" ></tag>

                                html event attribute        event directive
                                    onSubmit                    ngSubmit
                                    onClick                     click
                                    onFocus                     focus
                                    onBlur                      blur
                                    onChange                    change
                                    onMouseOver                 mouseover
                                    ......etc

            Structural Directives

                are in-built directives to control the elements structure.

                *ngIf
                *ngFor
                ngSwitch    *ngCase *ngDefault

            Attribute Directives
                
                are directives that work like attributes on a tag.

                @Direcitve({
                    selector:''
                })
                class FastMovingStockDirective {

                }

    Pipe

            is used to tranform a given value into another value just before rendering.

                lowercase
                uppercase
                titlecase
                number
                date
                currency

            @Pipe({
                name:''
            })
            class HighLighter {

            }

    Service
            @Injectable({
                providedIn:'root'
            })
            class SalesService {

            }

            is a class that offers bussiness logic, caliculatons/ validations/
            rest api communciation, state management.

Bootstrap Integration
----------------------------------------------------------------------

    npm install bootstrap --save

    node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css
    node_modules/bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap.js

    incldue those files in 'scripts' and 'styles' section of angular.json

Component Decomposition
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Breaking a single component into smaller multiple components. This
    often results in Parent-Child components.

        1. Parent component has to share data with child components.

            this is possible through attributes. @Input decorator
            is used to mark a field as an attribute.


        2. Child component may have to fire events that a Parent component should handle.

            a child component can raise en event thorugh EventEmitter.
            these EventEmiter's are exposed @Output decorator.

Routing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

    we can map components to paths, so that that component 
    is rendered only when the mapped path matches in the URL.

    'RouterModule' from '@angular/router'.

        Route               {
                                path:'',
                                pathMatch:'startsWith|full',
                                component:'',
                                redirect:'',
                                children:[]
                            }

        Routes              Route[]

        forRoot             used to register the paths with the RouterModules.

        router-outlet       is a in-built component sued to reserve place for
                            the output component of the routing   

        routerLink          is an in-built attribute directive for 'a' tags. used instead of 'href'.
        routerLinkActive    is an in-built attribute directive for 'a' tags. used instead to hold
                            any css-class that you may want to apply on active links.

Assignemnt
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    To create a model Employee:
        id:number
        firstName:string
        lastName:string
        mailId:string
        salary:number

    and develop an angular SPA to perform CRUD operations on it.
        C- CREATE
        R- RERIVe
        U- UPDATE
        D- DELETE

Observables
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

    Observable is a class from 'rxjs' library.
    RxJS - Reactive JavaScript is an indipendent library but is avaialble
    on the angualr project by default. (Is not ReactJS)

    const backgroundJob = (observer:Observer) => {
        
        observer.next(data); //used to emit valeus from the background job.....
        observer.error(err); //used to emit error if any from the background job.....
        observer.complete(); //used to indicate that the job is done.

    }

    let ob = new Observable(backgroundJob);

    ob.subscribe({
        next:   data => { },
        error:  err => { },
        complete: () => { }
    });

HttpClient
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

    HttpClient is a service from 'HttpClientModule'

        get(url) : Observable
        post(url,reqBody) : Observable
        put(url,reqBody):Observable
        delete(url) : Observable

json-server
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

    is a javascript library that generates fake rest end points to
    act as a simulating rest api on a given .json file. The .json file
    serves as a repository of data.

    npm install json-server --save

    json-server --watch data.json --port 8787

    
